README.md, before:

### What is it?

``databundle`` facilitates the aggregation of **tabular** data across variable
sources (flat files, PostgreSQL databases). It generates a single file that
contains various data sources.

The serialization format is flexible (for now either HDF5 of parquet) and
allows for efficient data loading and storage.

### Use cases

- We want to extract data from local databases and easily transport them to
  another compute server.

- We want to automatically fetch data from various online ressources (e.g. from
  public SQL databases) into a single file.

### Installation

```bash
git clone git@github.com:legaultmarc/databundle.git
pushd databundle
pip install -e .
```

### Usage

Bundling is relatively simple. First, you define the data sources and
serialization backend:

```yaml
serializer:
  output_filename: my_data_cache
  backend_name: parquet
  backend_parameters:
    engine: pyarrow

sources:
  # Data from a local SQL database
  - name: hospitalization_data
    type: postgresql
    source_parameters:
      sql: >
        select distinct sample_id::TEXT as sample_id, diagnosis_code
        from hospitalization_data
        union
        select distinct eid::TEXT, code
        from secondary_hospitalization_data
      dbname: some_psql_database
      host: hostname.domain
      user: database_username

  # Data from a delimited file
  - name: continuous_variables
    type: flat_file
    source_parameters:
      filename: test_data/dense.csv
      delimiter: ','
```

And then the `databundle my_config.yaml` command can be used to generate the
bundle.

Deserialization can be done manually or by recreating the Serde instance:

```python
import databundle.core
serde = databundle.core.ParquetSerde("my_data_cache.tar")
data = serde.deserialize()
```

### Features

**Available now**

- Supported sources:
    - Flat files (delimited files)
    - PostgreSQL databases

- Handling of missing values (done automatically by Pandas)

- Easy configuration with YAML and command-line interface

**Wishlist**

- Supported sources:
    - MySQL
    - sqlite
    - HTTP / JSON

- Backends:
    - Feather

Commit message:

Added a helper function to auto-detect the backend and create a Serde instance from a databundle file.

README.md, after:

### What is it?

``databundle`` facilitates the aggregation of **tabular** data across variable
sources (flat files, PostgreSQL databases). It generates a single file that
contains the combined data from all sources stored in an efficient format.

For now, both HDF5 and parquet can be used for serialization which allows for
efficient storage, fast data loading and interoperability across many
programming languages.

### Use cases

- We want to extract data from local databases and easily transport them to
  another compute server.

- We want to automatically fetch data from various online ressources (e.g. from
  public SQL databases) into a single file.

### Installation

```bash
git clone git@github.com:legaultmarc/databundle.git
pushd databundle
pip install -e .
```

### Usage

Bundling is relatively simple. First, you define the data sources and
serialization backend:

```yaml
serializer:
  output_filename: my_data_cache
  backend_name: parquet
  backend_parameters:
    engine: pyarrow

sources:
  # Data from a local SQL database
  - name: hospitalization_data
    type: postgresql
    source_parameters:
      sql: >
        select distinct sample_id::TEXT as sample_id, diagnosis_code
        from hospitalization_data
        union
        select distinct eid::TEXT, code
        from secondary_hospitalization_data
      dbname: some_psql_database
      host: hostname.domain
      user: database_username

  # Data from a delimited file
  - name: continuous_variables
    type: flat_file
    source_parameters:
      filename: test_data/dense.csv
      delimiter: ','
```

And then the `databundle my_config.yaml` command can be used to generate the
bundle.

Deserialization can be done manually or by recreating the Serde instance:

```python
import databundle.core
serde = databundle.core.ParquetSerde("my_data_cache.tar")
data = serde.deserialize()
```

### Features

**Available now**

- Supported sources:
    - Flat files (delimited files)
    - PostgreSQL databases

- Handling of missing values (done automatically by Pandas)

- Easy configuration with YAML and command-line interface

**Wishlist**

- Supported sources:
    - MySQL
    - sqlite
    - HTTP / JSON

- Backends:
    - Feather
